README.md, before:

# amakihi

Overview
========
End-to-end image differencing and transient detection software, including:

- Downloading reference images (a.k.a. templates) from various surveys
- Image background subtraction/estimation
- Image masking, including masking of saturated pixels
- Building effective Point-Spread Functions (ePSFs)
- Image alignment (a.k.a. image registration)
- Image differencing (a.k.a. image subtraction)
- Transient detection and basic vetting of candidate transients 

The end products of a pipeline constructed from ``amakihi`` are "triplets", i.e., 
`N` length-3 arrays of the (science, reference, difference) images cropped around `N` candidate transient sources. These candidate transients can then be further vetted with e.g. your favourite machine learning algorithm. (I use [``braai``](https://github.com/dmitryduev/braai)). Some modules for interfacing with ``braai`` are included here as well.

This software was developed to serve in a pipeline for the MegaCam instrument of the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope (CFHT). This pipeline was used for all image differencing and transient detection in the following paper describing our CFHT MegaCam follow-up of the gravitational wave event GW190814:

[Vieira, N., Ruan, J.J, Haggard, D., Drout, M.R. et al. 2020, ApJ, 895, 96, 2. *A Deep CFHT Optical Search for a Counterpart to the Possible Neutron Star - Black Hole Merger GW190814.*](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2020arXiv200309437V/abstract)


Named after the ʻamakihi, a species of Hawaiian honeycreeper (a kind of songbird).

Documentation
=============
Detailed documentation for all modules can be found [here](https://amakihi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). In the future, example scripts/notebooks will be added.

Installation
============

Currently, needs to be installed directly from github. May be install-able with ``conda`` and/or ``pip`` in the future.

**Essential dependencies:**

- ``numpy``
- ``scipy``
- ``matplotlib``
- [``astropy``](https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/)
- [``photutils``](https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [``scikit-image``](https://scikit-image.org/)
- [``scikit-learn``](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/install.html)


**Optional dependencies:**

- [``imblearn``](https://imbalanced-learn.org/stable/index.html) (if using `training_data_utils.augment_dataset_SMOTE()`)
- [``lxml``](https://lxml.de/) (if using `query_CFIS` module)
- [``astroquery``](https://astroquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (if using `crossmatch` module)

**Non-Python:**

- [``astrometry.net``](http://astrometry.net/use.html) (can however be ignored in favour of source detection with the image segmentation methods of ``photutils``' instead)
- [``hotpants``](https://github.com/acbecker/hotpants)


Contact
=======
[nicholas.vieira@mail.mcgill.ca](nicholas.vieira@mail.mcgill.ca)

Commit message:

Documentation and machine learning diagnostics in plotting New module: CNN_model_utils, for interacting with a trained convolutional neural network model (e.g., braai) Added machine learning diagnostics to plotting module Updated documentation Updated README with new dependencies

README.md, after:

# amakihi

Overview
========

End-to-end image differencing and transient detection software, including:

- Downloading reference images (a.k.a. templates) from various surveys
- Image background subtraction/estimation
- Image masking, including masking of saturated pixels
- Building effective Point-Spread Functions (ePSFs)
- Image alignment (a.k.a. image registration)
- Image differencing (a.k.a. image subtraction)
- Transient detection and basic vetting of candidate transients 

The end products of a pipeline constructed from ``amakihi`` are "triplets", i.e., 
`N` length-3 arrays of the (science, reference, difference) images cropped around `N` candidate transient sources. These candidate transients can then be further vetted with e.g. your favourite machine learning algorithm. (I use [``braai``](https://github.com/dmitryduev/braai)). 

Some modules for interfacing with ``braai`` are included here as well. 

This software was developed to serve in a pipeline for the MegaCam instrument of the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope (CFHT). This pipeline was used for all image differencing and transient detection in the following paper describing our CFHT MegaCam follow-up of the gravitational wave event GW190814:

[Vieira, N., Ruan, J.J, Haggard, D., Drout, M.R. et al. 2020, ApJ, 895, 96, 2. *A Deep CFHT Optical Search for a Counterpart to the Possible Neutron Star - Black Hole Merger GW190814.*](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2020arXiv200309437V/abstract)


Named after the ʻamakihi, a species of Hawaiian honeycreeper (a kind of songbird).



Documentation
=============

Detailed documentation for all modules can be found [here](https://amakihi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). In the future, example scripts/notebooks will be added.



Installation
============

Currently, needs to be installed directly from github. May be installable with ``conda`` and/or ``pip`` in the future.

**Essential dependencies:**

- ``os``
- ``subprocess``
- ``warnings``
- ``numpy``
- ``scipy``
- ``matplotlib``
- [``astropy``](https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/)
- [``photutils``](https://photutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)
- [``scikit-image``](https://scikit-image.org/)
- [``scikit-learn``](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/install.html)

**Optional dependencies:**

- [``tensorflow``](https://www.tensorflow.org/install) (if using `CNN_model_utils` module)
- [``imblearn``](https://imbalanced-learn.org/stable/index.html) (if using `training_data_utils.augment_dataset_SMOTE()`)
- [``lxml``](https://lxml.de/) (if using `query_CFIS` module)
- [``astroquery``](https://astroquery.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (if using `crossmatch` module)

**Non-Python:**

- [``astrometry.net``](http://astrometry.net/use.html) (can however be ignored in favour of source detection with the image segmentation methods of ``photutils`` instead)
- [``hotpants``](https://github.com/acbecker/hotpants)



Contact
=======

[nicholas.vieira@mail.mcgill.ca](nicholas.vieira@mail.mcgill.ca)
